Right.
Hello, everyone.
So in the previous part, we have decided that how the shapes and that buttons are going to be look
inside the frame.
Now, in this part, we are going to add the action listener to those added buttons.
So we were having separate buttons for the circle.
So when we click the circle option from the left panel, then our different options on the top back
will going to appear similarly for the line are different or top bar will appear to the user.
So when we click for the line had a size and the text will appear which will say that you have to drag
our starting point to the end point then whenever you want to take the line.
So here it is, please click first point and drag to the second points.
So a line is basically our joint, the structure of two points.
The joining of two points is called as a line, so we have to drag accordingly.
That's how long we want that line.
And also the size will contain a numbers pin model which is going to like set the width of the line
we are going to draw.
Now in this part, we will be adding action list notes to all of the buttons, whether it be for the
rectangle, the circle.
So let us come to this left bar and take it as one by one.
So this action, listening for this save button, then the rectangle, then the one, then the line,
and then these two buttons.
So, okay, so this is for the save button.
This action is not function.
The action performed is the name of the function and it is taking an action event.
So which indicates that how this action is going to be performed.
Also, this is for the rectangle, the circle, the line and the remove.
So and the clear all of course.
So this is for the remove, like remove a specific shape at a time and discharge for clear all the shapes
on the canvas at once.
Now this is for the colour.
So once we are done with the side bar.
So if we have chosen any of the options, like suppose we have chosen the rectangle, then we have to
set a colour for the rectangle to select whether it should be empty or full.
So in that way this action is not is working.
That set rectangle colour and a dialog box should appear when you get that choose colour button which
will ask us for a colour.
So by default the colour is going to be black and we can change the colour according to our preference.
Now similarly for the shape and the like, whether it could be full rectangle or a light coloured rectangle.
So we have seen this in the working part that on hitting this full, this rectangle is going to be drawn
in a complete manner with its border full with a colour, and if it is empty then only the outlining
is going to be done.
So this function is going to be responsible for that, that whether the rectangle is going to be full
or not.
So in that similar way, we were covering this for rectangle that things are going to be same for the
circle, but it could be the chosen colour part or the pool, an empty part.
So yes, the rectangle and circle are like working in most of the part in same manner.
So most of the functions we will encounter in the rectangle and circle is going to be similar, whether
it is choosing the colour, setting the height of it, setting and full and everything.
So coming to the line.
So that line is bit different.
Like when we select the line from the sidebar, then only a set colour button and the size button will
appear to the user.
So this is for choosing the colour so we can choose the colour for the line and like the line will be
drawn according to that.
So here we have drawn a black line as by default the colour is set to black and we can change the colour
and according to our like use.
Okay, so this snapshot, so how this snapshot part is working.
So on our drawing frame we are having a left panel, a top panel and a drawing editing area.
So when hitting the save button, the application is going to take a snapshot of the drawing area and
save it to our system in the form of a JPEG image.
So at this snapshot function.
Is going to take a snapshot of whatever is being drawn on the drawing editing area.
So basically the snapshot is a separate panel inside the application.
This white area is going to be the yes.
The subject for the snapshot.
It would it will have us like dedicated size, dedicated height and width, of course.
And our finger drawn on it will be saved in the form of image.
So this file user will open the file chooser of our system.
My title will appear.
That file will be saved in the jpg format.
Here we have it.
So this file chooser opens once we click the save button and then it will show this title and not the
normal file chooser of any text.
So this is all about like saving the image.
Yes.
So this try and catch block is for selecting the part of our image.
So here we have been asked for that where we want to save the image.
So the application is going to throw exception if the path chosen is like containing any kind of irregular
behavior.
So yes.
So once we choose the path, then we have to type of filing a file could not be empty.
We have to set a name for our image, whether it could be any normal alphabet, any random alphabet
on any proper name.
We have to treat the name inside this file name input field, and then we have to hit this save button
in order to save them.
And once the images save, then this dialog box will appear a message that the image has been saved
successfully.
So this part is showing that, that if the image has been saved successfully, then show this message.
That image has been saved successfully.
So this was all about this snapshot function and this is the end of this main class drawing editor dot
Java.
This part is going to test and run the application.
Once we run the application, then this is going to be handled how it is going to look.
So this UI manager said look and feel is for the modern look of this file chooser and this dialog box.
We have a conventional file chooser look.
But on hitting this like.
Choosing this UI manager set look and feel the modern file chooser like UI appears in our application
and this is a void run function which is going to run the application of course.
So this was all about our main class, the drawing editor, Java.
This was containing a frame, of course, the panels that are left on the top one and the drawing editor
area, which was empty in the beginning when we ran it.
An empty drawing area will appear.
We have to choose the shapes, set the width, colors and everything from the panel, and then we can
start our drawing.
Now the next class we are going to create is going to be the shape class we have discussed about it
in the working of the application part and we will look how it is actually working.
So let me first name the classes, shape Java and yes, it creates a public class shape.
Inside this shape or Java file, we are going to add functionalities for the drawing area.
So you have seen inside the circle and the rectangle class that we were using this X, Y and Z which
were like being responsible for the width and height of that specific shape which is being drawn its
distance from the x axis and the y axis.
And what color the shape is like containing, whether it is the empty shape or the full shape.
So if it is the shape, then the board that is going to contain that color.
And if we are choosing the full, then the color.
Color will be filled inside the shape of course.
So inside the shape class we are going to create the same like declare the same variables first X,
Y, W, X and a color of course.
So it is going to be color data type and this is going to be named as simply color.
So after this we are going to create a boolean which is going to check that whether that shape is filled
or not, whether it is empty or filled, so is filled initially is set to false.
So by default the shape which will be drawn is like without containing any color inside the borders,
just simply empty image.
Now the shape variables are being declared.
Now we are going to create a constructor public shape and pass arguments inside it.
The similar arguments we have passed inside this.
So we will copy it from head up to C and simply paste it inside this shape object.
So X, y, w, edge and color.
See.
So after this we are going to like how we can access that x, y, w edge and color inside this constructor.
So we have discussed about it earlier in the sections that we will be using this keyword in order to
set any shape, like set the dimensions to the shape.
Anyways, we want it.
So this dot divide, this dot W and they are going to set the values of all of them inside the constructor
of course.
So it is edge and the last one is going to be this dot color.
So we will be updating the color.
For the ship, which is being drawn on the panel.
So this dot color and on saving it, yes, it is formatted correctly.
Now we are done with this ship constructor.
Now we have seen that the ship was like moving.
We can move the ships anywhere in the frame, any random positions the ship can take.
When we were drawing a candle inside the working of the application part, we were moving it here and
there.
Like dragging a ship and moving it anywhere in the frame.
So for that, we will be creating a public void.
Move, function and insert the move function.
We are changing the accent via like the position of the ship with respect to the x and y axis.
So the arguments are going to be in that manner only so in DVI and so too much of typos.
This dot x and this dot y is going to be changed.
So we will be accessing it with the help of this keyword only.
So this dot y for the y axis.
So this was all about the move function.
Now the next part we will be covering is that a Boolean function contains which is going to contain
the shape which will be like accessing the W of the ship with ten height of the ship.
And that is going to be handled with the help of that contains function, which is going to check that
whether the ship is placed properly in the editor and the written height are like properly set for that
ship or not.
Okay.
So in order to access the colour component, we have to import the colour component of from the library
so that then it will be gone.
Initially it was showing a red underline for this colour part.
Once we have imported the colour, then that is gone.
Now inside the contents function, we are going to pass the arguments as X and Y.
So this is going to check that whether the update is updated position of the image is a like other than
the previous position and it is going to basically contains the shape.
So it is going to return the updated position of the C and otherwise it is going to return false and
there will be no change in the position of the shade on this x, y, w and edge and colour are like
declared ahead as the global variables.
But in order to access these five yes, five variables inside any of the classes we have to use get
n okay.
So we have to access these classes inside like access these variables inside other classes.
Then we have to use the gate method as we are going to highlighting this x, y, w edge and colour as
the only variables are going to be made possible with the help of this get method.
So yes, this was all about the shape class we have created, the positions for the shift like that.
It is going to be located from the like x axis and y axis and what is going to be its height and width
and yes, colour of course.
So in order to move the shape, we have to update the X and Y position like its distance from the origin,
from the x axis and the y axis.
And in that order only the shapes are going to be modified.
So yes, this was all about the shape.
Plus in the next part we are going to discuss about the drawing area.
Plus, yes, this white space is going to be a separate class and we will be covering it in the next
part.